[Music]
why i started waking up at 5 30 a.m
and how it changed my life
we keep hearing about how early birds
are way more productive and successful
tim cook richard branson and howard
schultz all wake up at 5 30 a.m
or even earlier so one day i decided to
conduct an
experiment to find out whether it's
truly helpful or necessary
and this simple decision has definitely
changed my life
but before we get into all the details
don't forget to subscribe to our channel
and turn on notifications
now you won't miss a thing
according to statistics the average
person in america rises sometime between
6 a.m and 7
30 a.m i was never really an exception
to this generally accepted routine
of getting up at 7 45 in the morning
leaving for work by 8am and sipping a
large cup of coffee on the go
then there was the long and tedious
commute after which i'd reached my
office around 9am
after work i was so exhausted that my
only wish was to lie down
and do nothing so i did precisely that
no gym no self-development and no
creative planning
just a blurry mind and a constant
feeling of tiredness day after day
was it finally time to shake things up a
bit my answer was yes
and this is how the most important
experiment of my life began
[Music]
i'm not going to lie the first couple of
days were the worst
i could barely keep my eyes open and i
dreamed about getting back to sleep
this was no surprise since i've always
considered myself to be a night owl
luckily my willpower won the battle and
i made myself continue with the
experiment
after the first week however i learned
an eye-opening truth about myself
mornings are the most productive time of
day for me
it was like finding out that your enemy
is actually your closest friend
my productivity just kept getting better
and better
i started to wake up with a clear mind a
well-rested body
and the ability to immediately
concentrate on important tasks and set
goals for the following day
it turns out that early rises give you
way more time to do things than you'd
ever imagine
i do so many tasks before starting work
in the morning that i'm amazed by how
i've already done so much
when my family members haven't even
woken up yet needless to say
by the time the evening rolls around i
have no more work left to do
and can spend more time with the people
i love the greatest bonus ever
[Music]
another wonderful addition is being able
to take my time
before this experiment i used to start
my day by jumping out of bed
late as usual and rushing to get myself
ready but i still
usually arrived at work late true story
right
i walked into my office looking
disheveled and grumpy
barely awake and behind everyone else
that's certainly not a great way to
start the day
[Music]
my new sleeping regime however gave me
two extra hours before i had to leave
for work
that period of time was enough for me to
get organized and even enjoy a hot cup
of freshly ground coffee and read a
couple of pages from my favorite book
just ask yourself this when was the last
time you did that before work
for me this moment alone makes all the
effort worthwhile
all the spare time i had opened the
doors to new possibilities
habits and hobbies of course it's your
call what to pick
i find that developing new habits is
crucial to one's self-improvement
and the extra morning hours are the
perfect time to make it happen
so i dedicated mine to personal growth
and planning
[Music]
i added brand new things to my morning
routine it was typically brushing my
teeth
shaving and getting dressed but during
the experiment i also
gulped down a glass of warm water right
after that and went to my desk to do
some reading and planning for the day
no weekend break either if you decide to
try a similar experiment
don't forget that a morning ritual is
much more than just a way to organize
your morning routine
it helps you easily insert new habits
among your old ones
by chaining all the tasks together try
to create your morning ritual in the
form of a to-do list and you'll form new
good habits while perfecting your old
ones
[Music]
by the way one of the habits you can
pick up is working out
i know training is no fun boo
look i'd rather be eating pizza too but
the thing is you can always choose the
exercises that you like
for example if you hate burpees but love
jogging
then just jog and forget about the
burpees once and for all
if you can't stand push-ups but don't
mind a plank
included in your workout trust me when
your training session consists of the
exercises that you find bearable
and even enjoyable it feels good
i quickly figured out that going to the
gym right after work was most likely to
be put off
because of the other things that come up
or simply because of tiredness
morning exercises on the other hand can
never get cancelled
thanks to the extra time i gained i
started jogging for 30 minutes every
morning
and lost about 4 pounds after a month
and i'm not gonna stop there
i'm on a mission here guys
if you're an introvert and enjoy
spending time alone in silence you'll
definitely have a new level of
appreciation for early rises
and that's my favorite thing about them
too no kids yelling
no babies crying no cars honking and no
television noise
the early morning hours are really
peaceful nothing was distracting me from
important tasks
i could easily gather my thoughts plan
ahead and focus effectively on what i
was doing at that moment
in the middle of my experiment i found
out that jeremy course
the former general manager of microsoft
wakes up between 3 30 and 4 am for the
same reasons
clarity of thought and quiet time during
the following two hours in the morning
he usually does all his work that
requires the most focus without any
distractions
after all as pascal once said the sole
cause of a man's unhappiness is that he
does not know how to stay quietly
in his room and waking up early will
certainly help you learn the art of
peacefulness
getting to work also became much more
comfortable
no one likes traveling in rush hour and
i'm no exception
but if you have a morning commute you
can take an earlier bus or train that is
less busy
and more pleasant to travel on and
you'll arrive more quickly
if you're a driver you can avoid heavier
traffic and reduce your journey time
significantly
or better yet you can start commuting by
bike as i did during the experiment
one of the most pleasant forms of
exercising ever
my breakfast meals also changed for the
better during my experiment i found a
fascinating article about a study
conducted by cross-modal research
laboratory of oxford university in the
uk
the study's results confirmed that we
should consume about 15 to 25 percent of
our daily energy intake in our morning
meal
without breakfast we usually get so
hungry by lunchtime that we eat lots of
unhealthy
yet pleasurable foods
[Music]
before the experiment by the time i'd
woken up i had to be somewhere else
already
that's why i almost always skipped
breakfast but those quiet morning hours
before work
solved this problem perfectly i had
enough time to not only prepare
breakfast but to sit down and enjoy it
as well
and after that i'll never go back to my
old i'll just grab a snack
ways
and last but not least another bonus of
my little experiment was the quality of
my sleep
as a night owl i used to go to sleep and
wake up at random times
but when you have to wake up early you
have no other choice but to establish a
proper sleeping schedule
[Music]
during this month-long experiment i
realized that i don't need to stay in
bed for 10 to 12 hours to get enough
sleep
waking up at 5 30 i feel rested and full
of energy to start a new day
a regular sleep schedule improves the
quality of your sleep and
makes you feel better and for all these
reasons my experiment
never really ended i still wake up at 5
30 every morning to enjoy my day to the
fullest
think about it maybe you want to try
this adventure yourself
[Music]
if the answer is yes then you'll
probably need some tips on how to become
an early riser
especially if you are naturally a
hardcore night owl
no problem i went through the same
transformation and there are some
incredibly useful things that helped me
on my way
first of all open your curtains before
going to bed
the logic behind this one is simple with
the first rays of sun
you'll be forced to wake up setting a
curfew for electronics can also be a
great solution
according to the national sleep
foundation electronic devices make it
more difficult
for you to get to sleep because their
blue light restrains the production of
melatonin the hormone that controls
sleep cycles
so it's not a bad idea to withdraw from
your phone tablet and tv
at least an hour before bed if you want
to improve the quality of your sleep
of course going to sleep earlier is a
must if you decide to get up two hours
earlier
go to bed at least two hours earlier too
only then will you get enough sleep
if you have trouble falling asleep try
reading in bed or listening to an
audiobook
on the other hand if you find it
difficult to get up that early in the
morning
put your alarm across the room from your
bed
if it's right next to the bed you'll
shut it off or hit snooze and fall
asleep again
but if it's out of your reach it won't
be that easy to continue sleeping
if it works start doing your morning
ritual as soon as possible
go to the bathroom and brush your teeth
your quick actions will leave no room
for feeling sleepy and returning to bed
as i was preparing for the experiment i
found a rather interesting approach
created by comedian jerry seinfeld
he uses a calendar system to force
himself to write his jokes basically he
has a big wall calendar and for every
day that he writes new material he puts
a big red x on it
he aims to create an unbroken shade of
these x marks for as long as he can
this is a great way to build a new
lifestyle because it gives you a visual
record of your success
and allows you to see how far you've
come as you go further and further
be sure to reward yourself for every
step for me
the reward was a cup of tasty herbal tea
or a good book
your reward could be a delicious treat
for breakfast watching the sun rise or
meditating
anything you take pleasure in
and that's everything you need to know
if you want to proceed with the
experiment yourself
hang in there for the first couple days
and cherish all the amazing results for
the rest of your life
good luck
what about you are you a night owl or an
early riser
tell us in the comments below and let's
see how many people there are in each
group and don't forget to give us a like
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side
of life
you